Support us and become VIP member
to remove all ads from www.OpenSubtitles.org
Previously on House of David...
This is the age of kings. We
are the first dynasty of Israel.
Father. why do you keep me in the hills?
Why not send me to the king's army?
David. you are a shepherd.
-You are not a man of blood.
-I am a warrior.
Samuel. tonight we celebrate.
You have twisted the throne
of Israel to your own glory.
so you will be given to a twisted
power and your own torment.
Samuel!
-Where are we going now?
-To find a king.
Have him followed. Bring
me the one he anoints.
David. the Lord of
hosts has chosen you.
-As what?
-King of Israel.
He must be slain along with
everyone in his household.
-What is this?
-It is a summons.
It's for David.
My queen. why is he here?
I am anxious to hear you play.
I'm glad you're here.
Mychal is the
daughter of the king.
If I become a part of the family.
there will be no bloodshed.
Kings protect bloodlines
and eliminate threats.
All of our lives
are at stake here.
The king is losing himself. I
recognize him less every day.
Samuel!
There are those who
still worship other gods.
I need your help.
Greetings from
the house of Saul.
Goliath!
Let me fight their king.
The Philistines have assembled.
They cover the mountain
like sands on the shore.
-And they have a giant.
-What?
Where is your king?
-He's just a man. Father.
-Is he?
Father!
How do we know this is
not just blind vengeance?
Saul having killed your
father on the battlefield.
We have to do something.
-Do you know which way Elah is?
-I will find it.
I have loaded the donkey with
supplies. I need you to take them.
-Where?
-To the battlefield.
Who is this giant to defy
the armies of the living God?
We must ensure our
throne survives.
You must crown me king.
Did the prophet Samuel
visit your family?
Yes.
If none of you will fight
this giant then I will.
Fight him with the same spirit
you bring into this room.
They say there was none like it.
The sword of Goliath.
Born in the fire. it has
a strength unmatched...
for those who can harness it.
Fight with me!
It would change how
wars are fought.
Change the very world itself.
Charge!
Those who wield its power
would conquer nations.
Destroy their enemies.
Just as the Philistines
sought to destroy us.
Desperate to claim their place as
the masters of the coming new age.
The Age of Iron.
This is what they say.
But I know the truth.
A sword is only as powerful
as the one who wields it.
David!
We must get to David! Forward!
Which way is forward?
Eliab!
Give us strength and protect us.
Guard. get my
horse and my armor!
Come on!
-Jonathan!
-Protect the prince!
Jonathan!
Form a perimeter!
Hold the valley!
-We should advance.
-No!
Hold this ground!
-I must find David!
-My prince. wait!
Give me the sword.
No.
-Saul. the great warrior king.
-No.
I am the chosen one.
I was made for this.
Father.
What are you doing? You're
not going out there.
I am well. Biti.
Father.
You yourself led me
from the darkness.
Now. I must lead this army.
You stay here.
See that guards are posted.
Protect them!
Oh. Lord...
give us this ground!
I need to find my brother.
Nathaneel. stay close.
David!
Send men to that ridge.
-Silence the prophet. and they cannot win.
-Come with me!
Forward! Show your worth!
Eliab!
David!
Thank you. Adonai.
for this gift.
What I do this day...
...I do in your name.
It is solid bronze.
The strongest metal on Earth.
Forged from the melted blades
of defeated Philistines.
Do you like it?
Good. Because I had
it made for you.
It is a king's sword.
the same as mine.
Inscribed with the history of
our people and a prayer to God.
You will use it with faith. to protect
our people and defeat our enemies.
'Cause one day. you
will be a great warrior.
My king. it's time.
Come with me.
Maoch...
your reign is over.
My people.
Gath will trouble
Israel no more.
I will build my fortress where
your stronghold once stood.
Father!
No!
God is with us!
David!
Jonathan!
-Are you all right?
-Yes.
Good. Stay close.
Get down. Arrows!
You never fought
a battle before?
Not before today. no.
First rule. remain calm.
You keep your eyes up.
and when you attack.
you stab. don't slash.
Remember. God was with you
when you killed this giant.
And he is still... Move!
-You stay close...
-All right.
-...your shield up. you watch for arrows.
-Uh-huh.
Let's go.
Arrows!
I have an idea.
They're going to be
victorious. right?
-Father is always victorious.
-Yes. of course.
Then why do you seem worried?
Mychal. stop. You're
making me nervous.
Mirab. stay there.
What is it?
I thought we were safe here.
It's the other army.
We've been surrounded.
They killed our guards.
Mirab. this is the king's tent.
It's the first place they'll
come. We have to move.
We can't.
We have to move now.
Take a knife.
Now. now.
Saul...
Agag?
This is chaos.
Joab. what is that?
Forward! Forward!
My prince!
David.
Abner. Get David off the
field. and then advance.
Finally!
I can fight with you.
We chase them all
the way to Gath.
God is with us.
Yes. my prince.
Keep the line!
-Where are you going?
-I'm going to find my father.
-I will go with you...
-No!
-You've done your part.
-Let me fight with you. Jonathan.
-Not today! Go!
-Come now.
Have you seen my brothers?
Eliab! Eliab!
Nathaneel! Stay close.
-Abinadab! Wait! Wait! No. no!
-You stay with us!
Where are you? I can't see.
-Get up!
-Wait! No. wait!
Eliab! Eliab! Eliab!
You never stop fighting.
brother. Never!
Get your sword and get to
David. Go. Nathaneel! Go!
Agag! Come back!
We have to go. Come on.
Okay. go. go.
-What is it?
-Stay down. stay down.
They have more giants.
Storm the valley!
Rally as many of the
tribes as you can.
Tell them we will
advance on my signal. Go!
Make way. Make way.
Come through.
David!
Eliab!
-You are alive?
-Yes. I am.
Thanks be to God.
Yes. And Jonathan.
I owe him my life.
-I should've been with you. brother.
-You are here now.
Eliab!
Ambush!
Hold the line. Hold. Hold.
It's King Ashdod's men.
They seek to surround us.
He's looking for David. We
cannot hold them off much longer.
-I will take David clear of the battle.
-No!
-Clear the field!
-Take some men with you.
Abi... Abinadab! I can fight!
There. there.
Are you ready?
I don't think I can.
We have no time.
Go.
-Sir! Sir!
-Follow them!
-Eliab!
-That's him! Kill that boy!
-Eliab! Eliab!
-Run! Go!
Go! Go!
Kill the boy! Go!
That boy is my brother!
-The king is dead! Retreat.
-Fall back. Retreat.
-Retreat.
-No! No. stay in the fight!
Send the signal!
We push them back
all the way to Gath!
Forward!
Follow me! For the
tribe of Judah!
Push them back!
Give us strength. oh. Lord.
Give us this ground.
As in the days of Moses.
shield us by night
in a pillar of fire!
Grant us victory.
Give us this ground!
Fall back!
Saul...
You cannot hide from me.
Great warrior king.
But you have not defeated me.
-Hide. Hide!
-All right.
Hide!
Abinadab.
This is not helpful.
David. Get down.
-I killed a lion with it.
-We know.
Just sit down. for
the mercy of God.
Sit down!
We have to get David to safety.
We're surrounded. brother.
There's no safety.
Abinadab. where is David?
Nathaneel!
He was just here.
Then go and find him!
-David.
-Brother. Get me out of here.
Get up! Go.
Father. why do we fight?
Why do we fight?
Tell me. what does
the shepherd do?
He watches the sheep.
That's right. And
do you know why?
Because there are lions
and wolves in this world.
And if the shepherd does not fight them
when they come. his sheep will be eaten.
And soon his flock
will disappear.
He will no longer be a shepherd.
and all that will be left
are the lions and the wolves.
That is why we fight.
To protect our flock.
Our people. our lands.
and all we hold dear.
So we. too. will not disappear.
But I do not know how to fight.
Then I shall teach you.
so one day you will be able to
fight the lions and the wolves.
Mychal!
Mirab. are you all
right? Are you all right?
-Blood. I have blood on me.
-We have to go. We have to go.
Nath! Keep fighting!
No!
No! Nathaneel!
Give me strength.
Oh. Lord. Help me remember
the better days...
Saul. Son of Kish. leader
of the tribe of Benjamin.
King of all Israel.
The Most High shines his
light on you this day.
as he did years ago when his people
cried out for a king to unify them.
He called upon you.
his faithful servant.
to lead them. to protect them.
and you have done so.
claiming great victories in
his name and for his glory.
Long may you reign.
May your house rule the kingdom
for generations to come.
Saul. when you were
small in your own eyes.
the Lord lifted you
up and made you king.
Now that you are great
in your own eyes.
you have rebelled and made yourself
evil in the eyes of the Lord.
Evil?
You have twisted the throne
of Israel to your own glory.
so you will be given to a twisted
power and your own torment.
You are alone.
The Lord has torn
the kingdom from you.
Abandoned.
Now he chooses another.
Forsaken.
A man after his own heart.
A king without his God.
Samuel!
It is done.
It is over.
It is over!
No. it is not over.
You missed much of
the battle. King.
Now the battle comes to you.
Achish. Son of Maoch.
You do me a great honor.
Honoring you is not my intent.
Yet all of this. your
whole campaign is about me.
And your thirst to
avenge your father.
And to restore my people
to their rightful place
as rulers over yours.
Your father held
similar ambitions.
They proved to be his undoing.
Oh. you'll come to find
I am not my father.
That you are not.
What dark pagan magic is this?
Not magic. Saul. Fate.
This is for my father.
Your wounds betray you.
Giant-slayer.
Stupid boy.
Finish it.
Or by the gods I shall
finish you. Jonathan.
-Finish it!
-Jonathan!
Jonathan!
What are you doing?
You will get your vengeance.
King. but not today.
No!
Jonathan. Jonathan.
It's me. It's me. It's me.
Are you all right?
David. what of the battle?
They're running away.
We're chasing them
to the Gates of Gath.
It's over.
I have to go find my brothers.
Go. Go. I will tend
to my father. go.
All right.
My son.
Come.
Where is Achish?
He escaped.
No matter.
The battle is won.
Good.
Good. my son. Good.
Are you not hurt?
No. I'm all right.
Let's go.
Victory!
Giant-slayer!
Well done. boy.
David.
Don't disappear on
me like that. Huh?
Elie...
I'm here.
I'm here with you.
-Breathe.
-Elie...
Yes?
Can we go home now?
Yes. Nath.
Yes. we can go home.
Tell David I'm
sorry I doubted him.
I will.
I'm sorry.
N-No.
David! David! David!
My daughters.
You were to stay in the tent.
The camp was overrun.
How did you survive?
We stayed together.
We fought the wolves.
My daughters are warriors.
My king.
My champion!
You know a great
many doubted you.
And doubted me.
Some in this very tent.
But I could see what
none of them could.
God's hand is on
you as it is on me.
Even still. how is
it a boy. a musician.
comes to fight in my
army. slay a giant.
and saves my life?
Tell me. Who are you?
You know who I am. my king.
Do I?
Where did you come from?
I'm a shepherd from
Judah. Nothing more.
Well. shepherd.
Did the prophet Samuel
visit your family?
Yes.
It seems now you
are so much more.
Jonathan.
On behalf of all of Israel.
we thank you. David.
You've saved us all.
Father. there is no one in all of
Israel more worthy for us to honor.
My sword.
It is now yours.
Thank you.
From this day forward. you
are part of the house of Saul.
Mychal.
David. you've...
You came back to me.
With God's help. yes.
Are you all right?
Yeah.
Ah. you wear the colors
of my family's house well.
I hope I will live up to them.
What you have done here...
it will never be forgotten.
Not by Israel. nor by me.
Jonathan...
is there something you'd
like to ask me about Samuel?
You are part of my house.
We are now brothers.
Interesting.
Psst.
-Come here. Come.
-What is it. Doeg?
Deliver this to
Abner. Only to Abner.
And tell no one.
Samuel!
I didn't expect to see you here.
I heard you left these lands.
I was driven from these lands.
What is between us.
-This misunderstanding is over.
-Is it?
Your misunderstanding
is not with me.
My torment has lifted.
Darkness has passed.
Your torment is of
your own making. Saul.
You were not abandoned
by the Most High.
It was you who abandoned him and his
word. in pursuit of your own glory.
Why would you believe he
has granted you mercy?
I won this battle without you.
God favored me.
He always has. He does still.
And now I have a new champion.
A slayer of giants.
Who I chose. All
without you. Samuel.
So. great Seer.
I offer you this moment.
You will anoint me again. on these
sacred grounds. for all to see.
This I cannot do.
Why not?
The Lord has not commanded it.
The king has commanded it.
Surely you must know by
now. I do not serve kings.
Very well.
Guards!
Arrest the Seer.
Saul.
In time you will heed my words.
This is finished. Samuel.
No. Saul.
It is just beginning.
Perhaps there is another
course of action?
I have decided!
Support us and become VIP member
to remove all ads from www.OpenSubtitles.org